# *Recommender Systems Using KNN for Rate and Recommend Items Using Amazon Reviews*
Author: *Arman Hosseinsarraf*
## Background on your code files
  
There is a pythone notebook named "Recommender_KNN" and the dataset related to my work named "ratings_Electronics" is available on this repository which is the complete source code of the project. This notebook includes all the necessary implementations, Comments, and Headers for each part of the project. The mentioned notebook, also, contains all outputs and visuallization for a quick glance. 

## Abstraction

In Artificial Intelligence, Machine learning provides automatic systems that learn and improve themselves from experience without being explicitly programmed. This research work builds an item recommender system using the K-Means Clustering and K-Nearest Neighbor algorithms. The rating_Electronics dataset is taken from Kaggle. The proposed work deals with the introduction of various concepts related to machine learning and recommendation system. In this work, various tools and techniques have been used to build recommender systems. Various algorithms such as K-Means Clustering, KNN, Collaborative Filtering such as Item-Based Filtering, Model-based collaborative filtering, TruncatedSVD have been designed and used. Then there is an illustration of how implementations and working of the proposed system are used to implement the item recommender system. Finally, in this work, values of Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Fraction of Concordant Pairs (FCP) are obtained to observe the performance. The best value of RMSE obtained is 1.3335. Although there is no specific ideal target for the RMSE value, the results given by the proposed system could be considered satisfying.
    
## How to run your code, guide to install any additional packages

The list of packages and necessary tools used in this project is as follows: numpy, pandas, math, json, time, matplotlib, seaborn, sklearn, joblib, scipy, surprise. Most of the mentioned packages like numpy, pandas, math, and etc. already exists in python but make sure to have matplotlib, sklearn, surprise, scipy, and other packages installed before running the notebook. As mentioned earlier the best and easy way for observing the project is to open notebook and have a look at my work. On the otherhand, if you wanted to run the codes, please make sure to download the dataset 'rating_Electronics' as well.

## Results, interpretation and reflection

In this project I used a dataset that includes 7824482 records and 4 features. On of the columns named "timestamp" was totaly removed because it was redundant. Three other features are UserID, ProductID, and score which all play a crucial role in this regression task. To design a collaborative filtering (Item-Based recommender system), I used 'KNNWithMeans' model from surpise package. I run the mentioned model with three different number of neighbours (3, 5, 10) but achieved the same RMSE (1.3335). Therefore, I keep the model with 5 neighbours as there was not any different among their performance. After training the KNN model with the preprocessed and clean dataset, it was tested on testing dataset. In this stage, for item-based system, I could achieve 1.3335 RMSE value and 1.03 MAE value. Although regressions' performance does not have an ideal point like classification accuracy, this score seems to be a satisfying performance. On the other hand, for designing a Model-Based collaborative recommender system, I used 'TruncatedSVD' model from surprise package. This model has no_components of 10 where this shows the dimensionality of output data and seems to be reasonable for this portion of project. After prepairing the data and creating the feature matrix, the TruncatedSVD model was trained. I then, used the trained model to build a correlation matrix that has values between [-1, 1]. This created correlation matrix could be used as a recommender system where the input is a productID and it would recommend other products based on their similarity. Please note that each similarity value of the given product with all other products is a number between -1, and 1. Therefore, we could filter them based on having the most similarities. For example we could define it returns just the products that has 70% or more similarities with given item. For further details and information please see the comments and provided information in the notebook.

## Conclusion

We have illustrated the modeling of an item recommendation system by using item-based and model-based filtering. The KNN algorithm is implemented in this project along with the principle of cosine similarity. It gives more accuracy than the other distance metrics, and the complexity is comparatively low, too. Recommendations systems have become the most important fount of a relevant and reliable source of information in the internet world. Simple ones consider one or a few parameters, while the more complex ones use more parameters to filter the results and make them more user-friendly and efficient. A strong product recommendation system can be built with advanced deep learning and other filtering techniques like collaborative filtering and hybrid filtering. This project can be a major step towards further developing this model as it will become more efficient to use and increase the business value even further.
