# Publications
### Publication: 1

* Title: Binary Image Classification Through an Optimal Topology for Convolutional Neural Networks
* Abstract: Deep learning applications in computer vision have expanded over the past years. Image classification, which is the fundamental of most algorithms in the field, has been of interest to many researchers. Advances in hierarchical feature extractions using convolutional neural networks as one of the deep learning architectures have enabled experts to improve the performance of classification significantly. In this work, an optimal binary classifier to distinguish cat and dog images was explored where various architectures and parameters were employed to achieve the best results. To design our experiment, we considered the architectures with two and three convolutional layers using two input image size when models were trained with and without Dropout against an identical dataset. The analysis demonstrated that an accuracy rate of 99.26% for the testing dataset was achieved from a three-layer model with an input image size of 32x32 with Dropout. The classification report of any models was produced to explore other metrics such as precision, recall, and F1-score, and they were aligned with the accuracy rates as this experiment was a balanced data situation.
* Link: https://asrjetsjournal.org/index.php/American_Scientific_Journal/article/view/5938
##
### Publication: 2
* Title: Recent Applications of Deep Learning Algorithms in Medical Image Analysis
* Abstract: Advances in deep learning have enabled researchers in the field of medical imaging to employ such techniques for various applications, including early diagnosis of different diseases. Deep learning techniques such as convolutional neural networks offer the capability of extracting invariant features from images that can improve the performance of most predictive models in medical and diagnostic imaging. This work concentrates on reviewing deep learning architectures along with medical imaging modalities where the crucial applications of such algorithms, including image classification and segmentation, are discussed. Also, brain imaging as a branch of medical imaging which allows scientists to explore the structure and function of the brain is explored, and the applications of deep learning to early diagnose Alzheimer’s Disease, and Autism as the most critical brain disorders are studied. Moreover, the recent research findings revealed that employing deep learning-based semantic segmentation techniques could significantly improve the accuracy of models developed for brain tumor detection. Such advances in early diagnosis of disorders and tumors encourage medical imaging practitioners to implement software applications assisting them to improve their decision-making process
* Link: https://www.asrjetsjournal.org/index.php/American_Scientific_Journal/article/view/6232
##
### Publication: 3
* Title: The emergence of machine learning in the artificial intelligence field led the world of technology to make great strides.
* Abstract: Today’s advanced systems with the ability of being designed just like human brain functions has given practitioners the ability to train systems so that they could process, analyze, classify, and predict different data classes. Therefore, the machine learning field has become a hot topic for scientists and researchers to introduce the best network with the highest performance for such mentioned purposes. In this article, computer vision science, image classification implementation, and deep neural networks are presented. This article discusses how models have been designed based on the concept of the human brain. The development of a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and its various architectures, which have shown great efficiency and evaluation in object detection, face recognition, image classification, and localization, are also introduced. Furthermore, the utilization and application of CNNs, including voice recognition, image processing, video processing, and text recognition, are examined closely. A literature review is conducted to illustrate the significance and the details of Convolutional Neural Networks in various applications.
* Link: https://www.asrjetsjournal.org/index.php/American_Scientific_Journal/article/view/6712
##
### Publication: 4
* Title: OViTAD: Optimized Vision Transformer to Predict Various Stages of Alzheimer’s Disease Using Resting-State fMRI and Structural MRI Data
* Abstract: Advances in applied machine learning techniques to neuroimaging have encouraged scientists to implement models to early diagnose brain disorders such as Alzheimer’s Disease. Predicting various stages of Alzheimer’s disease is challenging; however, existing deep learning complex techniques could perform such a prediction. Therefore, using novel architectures with less complexity but efficient pattern extraction capabilities such as transformers has been of interest to neuroscientists. This study introduced an optimized vision transformer architecture to predict the aging effect in healthy adults (>75 years), mild cognitive impairment, and Alzheimer’s’ brains within the same age group using resting-state functional and anatomical magnetic resonance imaging data. Our optimized architecture known as OViTAD, which is currently the sole vision transformer-based end-to-end pipeline, outperformed the existing transformer models and most state-of-the-art solutions with F1-scores of 97%±0.0 and 99.55%±0.39 achieved from the testing sets for the two modalities in the triple-class prediction experiments where the number of trainable parameters decreased by 30% compared to a vanilla transformer. To ensure the robustness and reproducibility of our optimized vision transformer, we repeated the modeling process three times for all the experiments and reported the averaged evaluation metrics. Furthermore, we implemented a visualization technique to illustrate the effect of global attention on brain images. Also, we exhaustively implemented models to explore the impact of combining healthy brains with two other groups in the two modalities. This study could open a new avenue of adopting and optimizing vision transformers for neuroimaging applications, especially for Alzheimer’s Disease prediction.
* Link: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.11.27.470184v2.abstract
